## Running many simulations

### Unix

This folder contains a shell script called `run_sims.sh` for running several simulations on a Unix-like system (e.g. Linux or MacOS), possibly with different parameter input files, in batch. The script can be run as follows (provided that the script has execution permissions, which can be set with `chmod +x run_sims.sh`):

```bash
./run_sims.sh [path_to_executable] [path_to_parameter_files]
```

By default the script will expect the path to executable to be `./archgen` and the path to parameter files to be the current directory. So, if the executable and parameter files are brought within the same working directory, the script can be run without any argument:

```bash
./run_sims.sh
```

The script will look for parameter files named in the format `sim_<number>_parameters.txt` in the specified directory, and run a simulation for each of them. So, if the directory contains:

```
sim_1_parameters.txt
sim_2_parameters.txt
sim_3_parameters.txt
```

then, running the script will run three simulations, one for each parameter file. Importantly, it will prepend a simulation identifier (e.g., `sim_1`, `sim_2`, `sim_3`) to all output files generated by the respective simulation, so that outputs from different simulations are kept separate and identifiable. So, the content of the directory may look like this after running the script:

```
sim_1_parameters.txt
sim_1_paramlog.txt
sim_1_architecture.txt
sim_1_traits.csv
...
sim_3_genotypes.csv
```

If several replicates are requested (`nrepl` greater than `1` in the parameter file; see [here](../doc/PARAMETERS.md)), output files will be suffixed just as when running a single simulation with multiple replicates (see [here](../doc/OUTPUT.md)). So, the content of the directory may look like this after running the script with `nrepl` set to `3` in all parameter files:

```
sim_1_parameters.txt
sim_1_paramlog.txt
sim_1_architecture_1.txt
sim_1_architecture_2.txt
...
sim_3_genotypes_3.csv
```

If an architecture file must be loaded for all simulations (`loadarch` set to `1` in the parameter file; see [here](../doc/PARAMETERS.md)), it should be present in the working directory as `architecture.txt`. If a different architecture file should be loaded for each simulation, they should be present as files named `sim_<number>_architecture.txt` in the working directory. So, if the directory contains:

```
sim_1_parameters.txt
sim_2_parameters.txt
sim_3_parameters.txt
sim_1_architecture.txt
sim_2_architecture.txt
sim_3_architecture.txt
```

then, running the script will run three simulations, one for each parameter file, and load the respective architecture file for each simulation. Note that this is done internally by renaming the architecture file to `architecture.txt` before running each simulation, irrespective of the value of `loadarch` in the parameter file. So, this does not replace the need to set `loadarch` to `1` in the parameter file. In general, make sure that the saving and loading parameters in the parameter files are consistent with the needs of your pipeline.

### Windows

The `run_sims.bat` file should be used on Windows. Except for the expected extension of the executable (i.e., `.exe` instead of no extension), the usage is the same as for the Unix shell script (see above).